So one of the things alongside
a minimal viable product that I've
increasingly started doing is
creating a future vision, right?
So don't just prototype the minimal viable
product, prototype the maximum product?
I don't know what the the kind of
opposite of that is the end goal.
Where do we want to be?
Where do we want to get to now we
don't need to build this in code.
I'm just talking now about
kind of figma II type stuff.
But it turned out to be
a really useful tool for
us especially as product designers but
also for getting a unity of
vision across the organization.
So there's several reasons why I've
started doing this more and more.
First is design consistency, right?
So it allows that product designer to put
together a kind of a design system and
dot design language for
the whole application, even for
bits that you're not intending to
launch yet or create yet, right?
And this vision will change, right?
I was complaining earlier about people
that had a backlog of features, right?
When they haven't even
launched the MVP yet.
And now I'm saying,
create a whole vision of everything.
That's contradictory, isn't it?
So I'm very aware that I'm doing that,
but I'm not saying we're gonna create
this vision, but it's an opportunity for
us to look a little bit further ahead and
maybe start to resolve some of those
more holistic design decisions.
But also it helps for more.
It allows to consider what features
might come into the app and
start putting the foundations
in place today, right?
Because it could be from both
a development point of view and
a design point of view.
It can be very challenging
to retrofit a new feature
onto an existing application, right?
It may mean changes to
the underlying database.
It may mean changes to the code base and
how that operates.
It certainly means problems from
a design system point of view.
And so there's a lot of complexity but
if you've got a kind of these are the kind
of features that we,might have,
and these might be how they look.
then at least you can bear those in mind
when you are creating the actual stuff for
the MVP and it also gives you a,
goal to work towards, right?
A shared vision that
everybody can look at.
Excites people about the potential,
it brings the team together, it helps
flush out a lot of the disagreements early
on about where things might ultimately go.
But within a less urgent way, because this
is never gonna be built as it is anyway.
Now I know that all sounds very wasteful.
But you're building this thing, creating
this thing that probably won't ever be.
But increasingly if you get
the opportunity to do this,
it helps solidify a direction,
a vision and
prepare the ground for the future.
Yeah, go for it.
>> Yeah, I think this is actually really
a good idea for another reason, and
that is to provide people with
a sense of it would increase morale.
>> Yeah.
>> That it's like,
these ideas are going somewhere that
you can envision something great.
You have something to look forward to.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
So the only danger here is that
this becomes a straitjacket, right?
You need to know you're not gonna build
this and you need to say that upfront.
I'll tell you the other thing it does
is it gives people creative freedom.
So stakeholders will start
suggesting things that they'll never
have suggested normally, right?
So I did this for an insurance company.
I don't know why I'm looking at you,
you're banking, but for
an insurance company, and we started
create this prototype and I said up front,
we're never gonna build this.
This is never gonna get built, but
we're envisaging what might be, let's,
go for it, right?
We were doing all these things and
of course,
I was breaking compliance rules left,
right, and center, and
the legal department would go, yes,
fine cuz he's never gonna get bill.
It's amazing how many of those things
actually carried through, right?
Once you kind of put your stake in the
ground, they got compromised down a bit.
And the wording was true.
But we got a lot further than I
expected we got because everybody
got carried along with
the enthusiasm of it.
It's a weird thing.
It's quite hard to explain, but
it's worth giving a go on one project so
you can see for yourself how it works.
How do we go about creating
this vision for the future.
Well, we can do some research up front,
find out what our user needs are,
what, are the stakeholders
different visions are for
the project, all that kind of stuff.
We can then brainstorm lots
of ideas what could go in it.
We create a bit of a prototype
around those visions.
This is all stuff that I'm
sure you're very aware of and
you've heard a hundred times,
you can test that,
see how people respond to it,
iterate around it a little bit.
And maybe even start turning
this into a bit of a backlog.
But probably not the right word
because that means it sounds like it's
prioritized.
But break this down into projects
that could be potential projects.
And then you share it with the rest
of the organization to get other
people excited and on board.
So those future visions can be a really
powerful tool that I don't think
there's a lot of people doing a lot of
that there's a big focus on MVPs and
not as big a focus on where
are we heading, yeah?
>> Is this are you seeing
this as different from or
the same as a map like as a.
>> Journey map.
>> Journey map?
>> Yeah, a journey map is nothing yes,
it's different.
So when we talked about journey
mapping on the user research and
testing thing, that is you can create
an aspirational journey map, right?
Which looks at, well, what if this,
it was a lot easier for the user and
that could act as this.
If you wanted it to it's a lot quicker and
a lot easier to create an aspirational
journey map than what I'm proposing here.
What I'm proposing here is
we actually create a figma
interactive prototype of what
the app might look like.
A few years down the road.
>> Right, I meant a roadmap,
a product roadmap.
Is that different from this?
>> Yes, yeah, a product roadmap
is more set in stone, right?
This is more what could be.
It sounds so pretentious and
so kind of wooll, and
who let's all imagine the beautiful
future we could live in together.
But it helps the UI designer,
because they can start thinking
about the thing holistically.
So it kind of ticks that box, but
it also helps enthuse stakeholders and
bring them on board.
It also means that you can
prototype without constraints.
So a lot of ideas that would have been
killed dead by legal or compliance or
whatever can kind of sneak through.
And even with developers,
it helps them go, well,
if we might be introducing
this feature later,
I need to make sure that that's gonna
be easy to build when it comes along.
So it is just a bit giving you a vision,
a direction to go on.
So just to kind of wrap this all up,
what I'm basically saying is we're
starting with an MVP and we're continually
iterating upon that MVP over time.
But we also need to remember to look
ahead, to have some kind of vision.
Now, how you express that vision, if
it's a prototype, if it's a journey map,
if it's a road map, whatever works for
you, but having that vision of the future.
I like prototyping personally,
because I think it is very tangible.
And also, just never forget that product
design is fundamentally different
from web design and it's got a lot of
nuances and is a lot broader in some ways.
And a lot of other considerations that
need to be brought into it, especially
if there's not good product owners and
a good structure within the organisation.
But then what we're gonna do is we're
gonna move into looking at kind of good
some of those areas in a lot more detail
in particular we're gonna start off by
looking at use cases.
And how to really understand what users
are wanting to do with this app because
that's the fundamental building block
upon which you grow from there.